The smallest pedigreed cat is a Singapura, which can weigh just 4 lbs (1.8 kg), or about five large cans of cat food. The largest pedigreed cats are Maine Coon cats, which can weigh 25 lbs (11.3 kg), or nearly twice as much as an average cat weighs.The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
A steady diet of dog food may cause blindness in your cat - it lacks taurine.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
The ability of a cat to find its way home is called “psi-traveling.” Experts think cats either use the angle of the sunlight to find their way or that cats have magnetized cells in their brains that act as compasses.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
Cats, just like people, are subject to asthma. Dust, smoke, and other forms of air pullution in your cat's environment can be troublesome sources of irritation.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Cats have 3 eyelids.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
Cats step with both left legs, then both right legs when they walk or run.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
In 1888, more than 300,000 mummified cats were found an Egyptian cemetery. They were stripped of their wrappings and carted off to be used by farmers in England and the U.S. for fertilizer.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
