Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
Cats have 30 vertebrae (humans have 33 vertebrae during early development; 26 after the sacral and coccygeal regions fuse)
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Cats' hearing stops at 65 khz (kilohertz); humans' hearing stops at 20 khz.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only cat is about 3 to 5 years while an indoor-only cat can live 16 years or much longer.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
A cat can jump 5 times as high as it is tall.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
At 4 weeks, it is important to play with kittens so that they do not develope a fear of people.
Researchers believe the word “tabby” comes from Attabiyah, a neighborhood in Baghdad, Iraq. Tabbies got their name because their striped coats resembled the famous wavy patterns in the silk produced in this city.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A cat has more bones than a human; humans have 206, and the cat - 230.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
Some Siamese cats appear cross-eyed because the nerves from the left side of the brain go to mostly the right eye and the nerves from the right side of the brain go mostly to the left eye. This causes some double vision, which the cat tries to correct by “crossing” its eyes.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy and healthy - some cats will purr loudly when they are terrified or in pain.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
The Cat Fanciers Association (CFA) recognizes 44 breeds of cats.
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (compared to human's 6 muscles each). A cat can rotate its ears independently 180 degrees, and can turn in the direction of sound 10 times faster than those of the best watchdog.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
In relation to their body size, cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
The first cat show was in 1871 at the Crystal Palace in London.
A cat’s brain is biologically more similar to a human brain than it is to a dog’s. Both humans and cats have identical regions in their brains that are responsible for emotions.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Approximately 1/3 of cat owners think their pets are able to read their minds.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
Despite imagery of cats happily drinking milk from saucers, studies indicate that cats are actually lactose intolerant and should avoid it entirely.
A cat's jaw has only up and down motion; it does not have any lateral, side to side motion, like dogs and humans.
The largest breed of cat is the Ragdoll with males weighing in at 1 5 to 20 lbs. The heaviest domestic cat on record was a neutered male tabby named Himmy from Queensland, Australia who weighed 46 lbs. 1 5 oz.
The name "jaguar" comes from a Native American word meaning "he who kills with one leap".
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
Unlike humans, cats do not need to blink their eyes on a regular basis to keep their eyes lubricated.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Cats purr at the same frequency as an idling diesel engine, about 26 cycles per second.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is in extreme pain.
